Your pancreas is a long, slender organ
that lies behind the stomach and intestines,
near the spine.
This delicate but vital gland
is responsible for regulating your bodies
blood sugar with hormones such as insulin,
and for helping breakdown food with digestive enzymes.
The pancreas is divided into four parts:
the head,
the neck,
the body,
and the tail.
When cancer develops throughout the pancreas
the entire organ needs to be removed,
in a procedure known as a total pancreatectomy.
Before beginning a total pancreatectomy
a patient is put under general anesthesia.
Your surgeon will then make
one or more incisions in the abdomen.
Depending upon the preferred approach.
Subcostal,
midline,
or through several small incisions,
known as a laparoscopic or robot-assisted approach.
Your surgeon will remove the entire pancreas,
a small segment of the intestine and the spleen,
along with the gall bladder and the common bile duct.
The lower end of the stomach,
known as the pylorus,
and nearby lymph nodes may also require removal.
The pylorus is a valve that controls the flow of
food from the stomach to the intestines.
This structure may be preserved whenever possible.
Especially large tumors may encroach
upon nearby blood vessels
that supply or drain the intestines.
Reconstruction of the veins and arteries
involved is technically challenging,
and is evaluated and performed
on a case by case basis.
Once the cancer has been removed,
your surgeon will begin
reconstructing the digestive tract.
A loop of the small intestine will be
connected directly to the common hepatic duct
and the stomach.
A total pancreatectomy,
is usually very successful at eliminating
cancer that has spread through the entire pancreas.
It is a major operation,
that usually takes 6-8 hours.
Most patients are fully recovered and back
to daily routines within a couple of weeks.